## What is a Network?

1. Computer Network:
        digital telecommunications network for sharing resources between nodes,
        which are computing devices, which share a common telecommunications
        technology,  e.g. printer, file sharing

2. Sneakernet:
        Walking from one computing device to another with the data to be shared
        on a portable data storage device. (humorous)

3. Basic Network:
        Copper wires, ethernet cables, coaxial cable, optical (fibre optic)
        cable,
        radio waves; wireless, wifi, bluetooth


## What is a Server?

1. Computer program or computing device that provides functionallity to other
   programs or devices, called 'clients'.


## What is a Client?

1. A client is a piece of computer hardware or computer software that accesses a
   service made available by a server.


## What is an NIC?

1. A _Network Interface Controller_ (also know as a network interface card,
   network adapter, LAN adapter, or physical network interface) is a computer
   hardware component that connects a computer to a computer network.


## What is a MAC address?

1. A _Media Access Control_ address (MAC address) is a unique identifier
   assigned to a network interface controller (NIC) for use as a network address
   in communications within a network segment, common in most IEEE 802
   networking technologies (Ethernet, Wifi, Bluetooth).

2. MAC addresses are primarily assigned by the device manufacturers. Often
   refered to as, _the burned-in address_, the ethernet hardware address,
   hardware address, and physical address.

4. MAC addresses can be recognised as six pairs of hexadecimal numbers,
   typically separated by hyphens, colons, or without a separator.
   (sometimes three sets of four hex digits with a separator, often a period).

5. Each address can be stored in hardware, such as the divices' read-only
   memory, or my a firmware mechanism.
   Many interface devices, however, support changing their MAC address.

6. Typically, the MAC address includes the manufacturers' organisationally
   unique identifier (OUI).
   MAC addresses are formed according to the principles of two numbering spaces
   based on Extended Unique Identifiers (EUI) managed by the Institute of
   Electrical and Electroncs Engineers (IEEE): EUI-48.


## What is modulation?

1. In electronics and telecommunications, modulation is the process of varying
   one or more properties of a periodic waveform, known as a carrier signal,
   with a modulating signal that typically contains infomation to be
   transmitted.
   Most radio systems of the 20th century used frequency modulation (FM) or
   amplitude modulation (AM) for radio broadcast.

2. A modulator is a device that performs modulation. A demodulator (sometimes
   refered to a detector or demod) is a device that performs demodulation, the
   inverse of modulation.
   A modem (from MOdulator-DEModulator) can perform both operations.


## What is a bus network?

1. A _bus_ network is a network topology in which nodes are directly connected to
   a common half-duplex link called a bus. (typically a coaxial cable).
   (10BaseT networks typically connect each device to a central _hub_, in one of
   several arrangent topologies, star, loop, ring, etc).

2. A host on a bus network is called a station.
   In a bus network, every station will receive all network traffic, and the
   traffic generated by each station has equal transmisson priority.

3. A bus network forms a single network segment and collision domain.
   In order for nodes to share a bus, they use a medium access control
   technology such as carrier-sense multiple access (CSMA) or a bus master.

4. If any link or segment of the bus is severed, all network transmisson may
   fail due to signal reflection caused by the lack of electrical termination.

5. Some types of electrical bus cables: 10Base5, 10Base2.
   Some types of non-electrical transmisson: fibre optics, free-space optical.


## What is DHCP?

1. The _Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol_ (DHCP) is a network management
   protocol used on Internet Protocol networks whereby a DHCP server dynamically
   assigns an IP address and other network configuration parameters to each
   device on a network do they can communicate with other IP networks.

3. An IP address must be manually assigned to a computer or other device on a
   network if a DHCP server is absent.


## What is a Repeater?

1. In telecommunications, a repeater is an electronic device that receives a
   signal and retransmits it.

2. There are different types of repeaters. Some broadcast the identical signal,
   but alter its transmission method, e.g. a different frequency or baud rate.

3. Different types of repeaters:
    Telephone repeater - an amplifier in a telephone line.
    Optical repeater - optoelectrical circuit for amplifying the light beam in
      an optical fibre cable.
    Radio repeater - receives and retransmits a radio signal.

4. Repeaters are use to extend transmissions over a larger area, and to transmit
   around or over obstacles, e.g. mountains, buildings.


## What is a Hub?

1. A hub, also refered to as, an ehternet hub, network hub, repeater hub,
   multiport repeater, is a network hardware device for connecting multiple
   Etherner devices together, so that they act a single network segment.

2. A hub has multiple input/output (I/O) ports. A signal introduced at the input
   of any port appears at the output of every port other than the original
   incoming port.

3. A hub operates at the physical layer (layer 1) of the OSI or TCP/IP model.
   A repeater hub also participates in collision detection, forwarding a jam
   signal to all ports if it detects a collision.


## What is a Switch?

1. A network _switch_ is a networking hardware device that connects devices on on
   a computer network. It makes these connections by using frame switching to
   receive and forword data to the destination device.

2. A network switch is a multiport network bridge the uses MAC addresses to
   forword data at layer 2, the data-link layer of the OSI or TCP/IP model.
   Some switches are also able to forward data at the network layer, layer 3 of
   the OSI or TCP/IP, by additionally incorporating routing functionality.
   These types of switches are commonly known as layer-3 switches or multilayer
   switches.


## What is a Router?

1. A _router_ is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer
   networks.

2. Routers perform the traffic directing functions on the internet.
   Data sent through the internet, such as email or a web page, is in the form
   of data packets. A packet is typically forwarded from one router to another
   router through the networks that constitute an internetwork, e.g. the
   internet, until it reaches its destination node.

3. Routers are typically connected to two or more data lines from different IP
   networks. When a data packet is received at one of the lines, the router uses
   the network address infomation in the packet header to determine the ultimate
   destination. Then, using infomation in its routing table or routing policy,
   it directs the packet to the next network on its journey.


## What is a LAN?

1. A _local area network_ (LAN) is a computer network that interconnects computers
   and computing devices within a limited area such as a residence, an
   educational institution, or office building, etc.

2. Ethernet and Wi-Fi are the two most common technologies in use for local area
   networks.


## What is a WAN?

1. A _wide area network_ (WAN) is a telecommunications network that extends over
   a large geographical area for the primary purposr of computer networking.

2. The textbook difinition of a WAN is a computer network spanning regions,
   countries, or even the world.


## What is a Firewall?

1. A _firewall_ is a network security system that monitors and controls the
   incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules.

2. A firewall typically establishes a barrier between a trusted internal network
   and untrusted external networks, such as the Intrnet.

3. Firewalls can be categorised as either network firewalls or host-based
   firewalls.

4. Network firewalls filter traffic between two or more networks and run on
   network hardware.

5. Host-based firewalls run on host computers and control network traffic in
   and out of those machines.


## What is an IDS?

1. An intrusion detection system (IDS) is a device or software application that
   monitors a network or systems for malicious activity or policy violations.

2. Any intrusion activity or violation is typically reproted either to an
   administrator or collected centrally using a security infomation and event
   management (SIEM) system.


## What is an IPS?

1. Intrusion prevention systems (IPS), also known as Intrusion detection and
   prevention systems (IDPS), are network security appliances that monitor
   network or system activies for malicious activity.

2. The main functions of intrusion prevention systems are to identify malicious
   activity, log infomation about this activity, report it, and attempt to block
   or stop it.
